# Chapter Seven of the Pragmatic Programmer 
  An idea from this chapter that I really is Tip 58 : Don't Be a Slave to Formal Methods. I feel like a lot of people, even I, enjoy being in a sort of bubble when doing thing. Like <b> everything </b>  has to follow a pattern or its not being done correctly. Which can be sometimes very limiting to creativity and prevent finding solutions to problems. One of my favorite things I learned in my web design talked about something quite similar: don't limit or throw out the crazy ideas because even the crazy ideas can lead to solutions. Which is something that I feel like is very true in a lot of cases. I feel like that tip 58 ties into this quite simiarly because that use of structure can be a way of blocking what really needs to be done. I liked the idea that the formal method was just another tool as well. The formal method can be quite helpful but it's not the only way to get something done. It is a tool to help.
  
   Something that I found confusing is the idea of categorizing and prioritizing constraints. The author never goes into details on how to make such decisions on which type constraints are considered more important and how a programmer should go about thinking constraints. I tend to overthink everything I do and therefore I tend to think that something is actually a lot bigger problem then what it probably actually is. While the questions the author gave the reader to ask themselves in the sitution can be quite helpful, I feel like the author could have gone in a little more detail.
   
   A topic that I found very interesting is the use of prototyping when trying to decide if the programmer is actually just procrastinating on something. I never thought about doing something like this when it comes to programming and I can see why this would be quite helpful on finding the real problem. 

# Chapter Four of the Pragmatic Programmer 
  An idea from the chapter that I really liked was the importances of crashing your application. It's something that I would normally think of doing. Since the end goal is to having a working application and so I would think that you would want perfect code on the first try (which is definetly something that is really hard to do) and you wouldn't want bugs in your code. The importance of errors and how they give you information towards better code. I liked the topic of assertive programming and the whole idea that "if you don't think it could happen then add a block of code". I feel like that is a very helpful idea and something that I want to include more in programming. 

# Chapter Two of the Pragmatic Programmer 
  An I idea from the chapter that I agree on is the idea on the importance of orthogonality in code. The way the author present the idea at first seem really weird but after each example (and especially the helicopter example), the idea started making more and more sense. I also liked that the authore presented ways code can become nonorthogonality. Because it gave great insight on how things that I would think was okay would be wrong and the author clearly explained why that would be wrong and how that can be a bad practice. Which is quite helpful on seeing the way that I can improve.
  
  Something that I found quite confusing in chapter is the topic of prototypes and tracer bullets. I feel like the two are quite similar in their purpose. Even though the author went into great details of the differences of the two, I still felt that the two were too similar to tell the difference. Especially in the topic of How not to use Prototypes, when the author mentions that if you feel as if the prototype may mislead then you should use tracer bullets, but tracer bullets are still practically still a prototype. 
  
  A topic that I found intreseting was the topic of estimating. I mostly associated estimating with like money and businesses. Not really with software engineering. Especially how deep and complex it is. I would never think to estimate like the way the author mentions in the book with like the math and spreadsheets but it is soemthing that I am definetly going to try. 

# Chapter One of The Pragmatic Programmer 
  One thing that I definetly agree on in the first chapter of The Pragmatic Programmer is the discussion on listening to othersand encouraging others to talk. I've never thought about the importance of asking questions, and making sure everything is clearly understood. But after thinking about it in a business, I can see why it's important to be able to communicate everything clearly and asking questions because it, improves, relationships with coworkers and provides clear instruction. Both in which make a work quite effective and productive. I also like how the author discussed how listening to others kind of lends a helping hand when it is time for others to listen to you. I feel like it relates back to the idea that the small things matter. So when you take the time to actually listen to others, when its your turn people will remember that you did that for them and they are more likely to reciprocate the same gesture. 
  
   Although the book was clearly structured and made alot of sense in some parts, I did find the topic of choosing a style to be a bit confusing. Just whether it is in relation to writing and/or speaking. I would also want to know how you change your speaking style to an audience and what speaking style do you use with what audience. I can understand the process of changing your writing style with what audience you have. 
   
   A topic that I found interesting was with the set of goals the author gave us to improve our knowledge portfolio. I'm always wanting to learn the most I can about software and programming and having tips to improve is quite helpful. The tip I found the most interesting is the part when the author talks about taking classes but more on the lines of taking courses at a trade show. I honestly never thought about going to trade show and figuring out what I could learn from there. I hope to actually go to one one day.


# Why I am Taking Software Engineering?
  I'm taking softwar engineering in hopes to get a better feel of what is actually like to be in the industry. Granite, it is a class but I hope that what I learn in the class can be transfered to an actual job setting. I want to improve my programming abilities. While I know multiple different languages, I feel like I am not very skilled in it. I feel like coding is very important because it can be transferred to many opportunities. I also very much enjoy coding and solving problems with code and would really would like to improve as much as I can. 



# What Software Engineering Is To Me?

  Software Engineering to me is building and creating new software for a customer that will better users. Apps and programs should have a purpose and it's the software engineers job to create and design that intended purpose in the most efficient way possible with updates. Software engineering is also about improving the software we have now and making sure that is still as efficient as possible for the user and customer and make sure it is bug free. 
